DOC-10400-db-config-schema-description-rewrite (#1002)
couchbaselabs/docs-sync-gateway: modules/configuration/pages/configuration-schema-database.adoc

[#lbl-buckets-scopes-collections]
== Understanding Buckets, Scopes, and Collections

{svr}, {sgw}, and Couchbase Lite all organize data using the same three-level hierarchy: bucket, scope, and collection.
A collection holds documents.
A scope groups related collections.
A bucket holds all the scopes for a dataset.

<<tbl-bucket-scope-collection>> maps the terms across all three.

.Bucket, scope, and collection mapping across {svr}, {sgw}, and Couchbase Lite
[#tbl-bucket-scope-collection,cols="1,2,2,2", options="header"]
|===

|Level
|{svr}
|{sgw} database config
|Couchbase Lite

|Top container
|A bucket, created and managed on the {svr} cluster.
|The `bucket` property names one existing {svr} bucket. Each {sgw} database maps to exactly one {svr} bucket.
|A database, created locally on the mobile or edge device.

|Namespace
|A scope, created within a bucket.
|A key under the `scopes` object in the database config.
|A scope, created within a Couchbase Lite database.

|Data container
|A collection, created within a scope.
|A key under `scopes.<scope-name>.collections` in the database config.
|A collection, created within a Couchbase Lite scope.

|===

=== Defaults

> If you don't specify a custom scope and collection, any documents you create save in the default scope and collection.

Reviewer: Not sure this reads 100% right. 

```suggestion
If you don't specify a custom scope and collection, any documents you create get saved in the default scope and collection.
```
Or something like "If you don't specify a custom scope and collection in your database configuration, the database will use the default scope and collection."

=== Name matching across tiers

Scope and collection names must match exactly, character for character, across all three tiers.
For example, a Couchbase Lite replicator configured to sync the `airline` collection in the `inventory` scope only succeeds against a {sgw} database that defines an `airline` collection inside an `inventory` scope in its `scopes` config.

The scope and collection must already exist on the {svr} bucket before you reference them in the {sgw} database config.
{sgw} does not create scopes or collections on {svr}; you must create them there first.

If a mismatch exists at any tier, replication does not start and Couchbase Lite logs an error.

=== The system collection

{sgw} uses a reserved system collection, `_system._mobile`, to store its internal metadata separately from user application data.

> This collection is owned by {sgw} and is not a user-configurable scope or collection.

Reviewer: Given this is an opt in feature to use we should state that here something like "{sgw} uses a reserved system collection, `_system._mobile`, to store its internal metadata separately from user application data if opted in to do so." 

You sort of mention this below in separate paragraph so you could just remove this bit or update it to mention the opt in i'll leave that up to you to see what looks/read best.

Author: I've updated this, thank you

From {sgw} 4.1, you can opt in to migrating {sgw} internal metadata from the default collection (`_default._default`) to `_system._mobile`.
This isolates {sgw} system documents from your application data, prevents metadata from appearing in the Capella UI alongside user documents, and reduces the risk of metadata being processed by eventing functions or {sqlpp} queries.

See xref:ROOT:migrate-metadata-system-collection.adoc[Migrate Metadata to System Collection] for details.

=== Scope and collection limits

You can define 1 custom scope per database with up to 1000 custom collections.

> This limit reflects current {svr} indexing capacity rather than an independently configurable {sgw} setting: {sgw} typically creates around 5 indexes per collection to support mobile replication, and indexing capacity is the constraint that governs how many collections mobile workloads can use.

Reviewer: I think we should remove the why here. Just state that the current limits are:
- 1 scope per database  
- 1000 collections across the cluster

Drop anything mentioning this is down to indexing capacity.

Author: I've updated this, good looking out, thank you!
